[GRPC] Documentation for 3.2 GRPC GA (Bulk and k-NN Search) (#10651)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/grpc-apis/knn.md

---
layout: default
title: k-NN (gRPC)
parent: gRPC APIs
nav_order: 30
---

# k-NN (gRPC) API
**Introduced 3.2**
{: .label .label-purple }

> The gRPC k-NN API is generally available starting with OpenSearch 3.2. However, expect updates to the protobuf structure as the feature matures in the next releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The gRPC k-NN API is generally available starting with OpenSearch 3.2. However, expect updates to the protobuf structure as the feature matures in upcoming versions.
```

The gRPC implementation uses the same underlying k-NN functionality as the HTTP API while providing improved performance through protocol buffer serialization.

## KnnQuery fields

The gRPC k-NN API uses the [`KnnQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1058) message within a [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L341) for k-NN searches. The `KnnQuery` message accepts the following fields.

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `field` | `string` | The vector field against which to run the search query. Required. |
| `vector` | `repeated float` | A query vector. Must have the same number of dimensions as the vector field. Optional. |
| `k` | `int32` | The number of nearest neighbors to return as top hits. Optional. |

> | `min_score` | `float` | The minimum similarity score for a neighbor to be considered a hit. Optional. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `min_score` | `float` | The minimum similarity score required for a neighbor to be considered a hit. Optional. |
```

> | `max_distance` | `float` | The maximum physical distance in vector space for a neighbor to be considered a hit. Optional. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `max_distance` | `float` | The maximum physical distance in vector space required for a neighbor to be considered a hit. Optional. |
```

| `filter` | [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L341) | Filters for the k-NN search query. See [Filter limitations](#filter-limitations). Optional. |

> | `boost` | `float` | A boost value to increase or decrease relevance scores. Default is 1.0. Optional. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `boost` | `float` | A boost value used to increase or decrease relevance scores. Default is 1.0. Optional. |
```

        SearchResponse response = searchStub.search(request);

        System.out.println("Found " + response.getResponseBody().getHits().getHitsCount() + " results");

        channel.shutdown();
    }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

## Response fields

k-NN search requests return the same [`SearchResponse`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L317) structure as regular search operations. For information about response fields, see [Search (gRPC) response fields]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/search/#response-fields).

The response includes the standard search metadata (`took`, `timed_out`, and `shards`) and a `hits` array containing the k-NN documents with their similarity scores.

## Filter limitations

The gRPC k-NN API has limited support for the `filter` clause compared to the HTTP API. For the current list of supported query types in gRPC, see the [Search API QueryContainer documentation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/search/#querycontainer-fields) and [Supported queries]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/search/#supported-queries).

> For complex filtering requirements, consider using the HTTP k-NN API, simplifying your filter logic, or waiting for the next release of k-NN gRPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For complex filtering requirements, consider using the HTTP k-NN API, simplifying your filter logic, or waiting for the next version of k-NN gRPC.
```

## Related APIs

- [Search (gRPC)]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/search/) - General gRPC search functionality
- [Bulk (gRPC)]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/bulk/) - Bulk operations using gRPC
- [k-NN queries]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/specialized/k-nn/) - HTTP-based k-NN query documentation

## Next steps

> - Learn more about [vector search in OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/index/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Learn more about [vector search in OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/index/).
```

> - Explore [k-NN index settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/knn-index/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Explore [k-NN index settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/knn-index/).
```

> - Review [performance tuning for k-NN]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/performance-tuning/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Review [performance tuning for k-NN]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/performance-tuning/).
```

> - Read about [gRPC configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/index/#enabling-grpc-apis)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read about [gRPC configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/index/#enabling-grpc-apis).
```

        SearchRequest request = SearchRequest.newBuilder()
            .addIndex("vector_index")
            .setRequestBody(SearchRequestBody.newBuilder()
                .setQuery(knnQuery)
                .setSize(10)
                .build())
            .build();

        // Execute the search
        SearchResponse response = searchStub.search(request);

        System.out.println("Found " + response.getResponseBody().getHits().getHitsCount() + " results");

        channel.shutdown();
    }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

## Response fields

k-NN search requests return the same [`SearchResponse`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L317) structure as regular search operations. For information about response fields, see [Search (gRPC) response fields]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/search/#response-fields).

The response includes the standard search metadata (`took`, `timed_out`, and `shards`) and a `hits` array containing the k-NN documents with their similarity scores.

## Filter limitations

The gRPC k-NN API has limited support for the `filter` clause compared to the HTTP API:

> - **Supported filters**: Basic [`term`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/search/#term-query) and [`terms`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/search/#terms-query) queries

Author: Good call, updated!

---
layout: default
title: k-NN (gRPC)
parent: gRPC APIs
nav_order: 30
---

# k-NN (gRPC) API
**Introduced 3.2**
{: .label .label-purple }

> **Generally available 3.2**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> {: .label .label-green }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The gRPC k-NN API is generally available starting with OpenSearch 3.2. However, expect tweaks to the protobuf structure as the feature matures in the next releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The gRPC k-NN API is generally available starting with OpenSearch 3.2. However, expect updates to the protobuf structure as the feature matures in the next releases.
```

> The gRPC k-NN API provides an efficient, binary-encoded interface for performing k-nearest neighbor searches using protocol buffers over gRPC. k-NN (k-nearest neighbor) is a plugin that offers a specific search query type for vector similarity searches. This API offers superior performance compared to the traditional HTTP-based approach, making it ideal for large-scale machine learning and vector database applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The gRPC k-NN API provides an efficient, binary-encoded interface for performing k-nearest neighbor searches using protocol buffers over gRPC. The k-NN plugin offers a specific search query type for vector similarity searches. This API offers superior performance compared to the traditional HTTP-based approach, making it ideal for large-scale machine learning and vector database applications.
```

For information about HTTP-based k-NN queries, see [k-NN query]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/specialized/k-nn/).

## Prerequisite

To submit gRPC requests, you must have a set of protobufs on the client side. For ways to obtain the protobufs, see [Using gRPC APIs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/index/#using-grpc-apis).

## gRPC service and method

gRPC k-NN APIs reside in the [`SearchService`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/services/search_service.proto#L22), the same service used for general search operations.

> You can submit k-NN search requests by invoking the [`Search`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/services/search_service.proto#L23) gRPC method within the `SearchService`, using a [`KnnQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1058) within the search request. The method takes in a [`SearchRequest`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L18) and returns a [`SearchResponse`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L317).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can submit k-NN search requests by invoking the [`Search`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/services/search_service.proto#L23) gRPC method within the `SearchService`, using a [`KnnQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1058) within the search request. The method takes a [`SearchRequest`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L18) and returns a [`SearchResponse`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L317).
```

> The gRPC implementation leverages the same underlying k-NN functionality as the HTTP API while providing improved performance characteristics through protocol buffer serialization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The gRPC implementation uses the same underlying k-NN functionality as the HTTP API while providing improved performance through protocol buffer serialization.
```

## KnnQuery fields

> The gRPC k-NN API uses the [`KnnQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1058) message within a [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L341) for k-nearest neighbor searches. The `KnnQuery` message accepts the following fields:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The gRPC k-NN API uses the [`KnnQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1058) message within a [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L341) for k-NN searches. The `KnnQuery` message accepts the following fields.
```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `field` | `string` | The vector field against which to run the search query. Required. |

> | `vector` | `repeated float` | Query vector. Must have the same number of dimensions as the vector field. Optional. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `vector` | `repeated float` | A query vector. Must have the same number of dimensions as the vector field. Optional. |
```

| `k` | `int32` | The number of nearest neighbors to return as top hits. Optional. |
| `min_score` | `float` | The minimum similarity score for a neighbor to be considered a hit. Optional. |
| `max_distance` | `float` | The maximum physical distance in vector space for a neighbor to be considered a hit. Optional. |
| `filter` | [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L341) | Filters for the k-NN search query. See [Filter limitations](#filter-limitations). Optional. |

> | `boost` | `float` | Boost value to increase or decrease relevance scores. Default is 1.0. Optional. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `boost` | `float` | A boost value to increase or decrease relevance scores. Default is 1.0. Optional. |
```

> | `underscore_name` | `string` | Query name for query tagging (JSON name: `_name`). Optional. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `underscore_name` | `string` | A query name for query tagging (JSON key: `_name`). Optional. |
```

> | `method_parameters` | [`ObjectMap`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L76) | Algorithm-specific parameters (`ef_search`, `nprobes`). Optional. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `method_parameters` | [`ObjectMap`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L76) | Algorithm-specific parameters (for example, `ef_search` or `nprobes`). Optional. |
```

> | `rescore` | [`KnnQueryRescore`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1107) | Rescoring configuration for improved accuracy. Available in versions later than 2.17. Optional. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `rescore` | [`KnnQueryRescore`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1107) | A rescoring configuration for improved accuracy. Available in versions later than 2.17. Optional. |
```

| `expand_nested_docs` | `bool` | When `true`, retrieves scores for all nested field documents within each parent document. Used with nested queries. Optional. |

## Example request

The following example shows a gRPC search request with a k-NN query. It searches for the 10 most similar vectors to the query vector `[0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4]` in the `my_vector` field of the `vector_index` index:

```json
{
  "index": ["vector_index"],
  "request_body": {
    "query": {
      "knn": {
        "field": "my_vector",
        "vector": [0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4],
        "k": 10
      }
    },
    "size": 10
  }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

## Java gRPC client example

> Here's a basic example of how to use the gRPC k-NN API (actual implementation depends on your gRPC client setup):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is a basic example of using the gRPC k-NN API (the actual implementation depends on your gRPC client setup):
```

                .usePlaintext()
                .build();

        // Create a gRPC stub for search operations
        SearchServiceGrpc.SearchServiceBlockingStub searchStub =
            SearchServiceGrpc.newBlockingStub(channel);

        // Build a k-NN query using protocol buffers
        QueryContainer knnQuery = QueryContainer.newBuilder()
            .setKnn(KnnQuery.newBuilder()
                .setField("my_vector")
                .addAllVector(Arrays.asList(0.1f, 0.2f, 0.3f, 0.4f))
                .setK(10)
                .build())
            .build();

        // Create the search request
        SearchRequest request = SearchRequest.newBuilder()
            .addIndex("vector_index")
            .setRequestBody(SearchRequestBody.newBuilder()
                .setQuery(knnQuery)
                .setSize(10)
                .build())
            .build();

        // Execute the search
        SearchResponse response = searchStub.search(request);

        System.out.println("Found " + response.getResponseBody().getHits().getHitsCount() + " results");

        channel.shutdown();
    }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

## Response fields

> k-NN search requests return the same [`SearchResponse`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L317) structure as regular search operations. For detailed information about response fields, see [Search (gRPC) response fields]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/search/#response-fields).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
k-NN search requests return the same [`SearchResponse`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.6.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L317) structure as regular search operations. For information about response fields, see [Search (gRPC) response fields]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/grpc-apis/search/#response-fields).
```
